Add an inventory (#2604)
openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools: CONTENTS.md

* Usage: ?

#### metrics-access

Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generates metrics. It is composed of a PHP
script and a set of [systemd units](systemd).

* Sources: [metrics/access/aggregate.php](metrics/access/aggregate.php)
* Documentation: [docs/metrics.md](./docs/metrics.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-metrics-access
* Usage: ?

#### totest-manager

Releases distribution snapshots to openQA and publishes if the result is positive.

* Sources: [totest-manager.py](totest-manager.py) and [ttm](ttm)
* Documentation: [ttm/README.md](ttm/README.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### unmaintained

Finds unmaintained binaries sourced from SLE.

* Sources: [unmaintained.py](unmaintained.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### sync-rebuild

Syncs openSUSE:Factory and openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild.

* Sources: [sync-rebuild.py](sync-rebuild.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### bugowner

Manages bugowner information

* Sources: [bugowner.py](bugowner.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### bs_mirrorfull

> Mirrors repositories from build service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mirrors repositories from the build service to a local directory.
```

* Souces: [bs_mirrorfull](bs_mirrorfull)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: Used by other tools like `pkglistgen` or `repocheck`

#### biarchtool

Manages biarch packages

* Source: [biarchtool.py](biarchtool.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### build-fail-reminder

Sends e-mails about packages failing to build for a long time.

* Sources: [build-fail-reminder.py](build-fail-reminder.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### checknewer

Checks if all packages in a repository are newer than all other repositories.

* Sources: [checknewer.py](checknewer.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### deptool

Assists in debugging dependencies

* Sources: [deptool.py](deptool.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### requestfinder

Allows to retrieve requests from OBS with quite elaborated queries.

* Sources: [requestfinder.py](requestfinder.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

> #### update_crawler (obsoleted by origin-manager)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### update_crawler (obsoleted by [origin-manager](#origin-manager))
```

* A set of [Tampermonkey](https://www.tampermonkey.net) scripts (see [userscript](userscript)
  directory) to extend OBS features when using the web interface.
* Several [systemd](systemd) units: the Metrics and OBS Operator tools make use of
  them.

## Tools

Most of these tools are available as packages for several distributions. Check the [spec file in
this repository](dist/package/openSUSE-release-tools.spec) or the [devel
project](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/openSUSE:Tools/openSUSE-release-tools) for further
information.

For the time being, we have classified them into three different groups: *command line tools*, *OBS
bots* and *osc plugins*. Bear in mind that the information in the following list might be wrong and
incomplete.

### Command Line Tools

 Usually, the executables are renamed as `osrt-NAME` (e.g., `osrt-announcer`).

#### announcer

Generates email diffs summaries to announce product releases.

* Sources: [factory-package-news/announcer.py](factory-package-news/announcer.py)
* Documentation: [factory-package-news/README.asciidoc](factory-package-news/README.asciidoc)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-announcer

> * Usage: gocd

Reviewer 2: This "usage" field would be more useful if it would contain a link to `gocd/announcer.gocd.yaml` instead of a plain "gocd"

Author: Well, at first sight, I would say yes. However, there are tools that are mentioned in several gocd files, and I do not see the point of linking all of them (pkglistgen.py, 9; totest-manager, 6; staging-report, 2; etc.). I am not sure about the benefits.

Reviewer 2: Yep. Your are right. And it's maybe an information that will tend to get outdated as the content of the `gocd` directory changes. So I would leave it as it is or use something like this (only useful when reading the document in github, but maybe convenient): [gocd](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/search?q=path%3A%2Fgocd+announcer.py)

Author: I would say the search mechanism is buggy: compare searching for [container_cleaner.py](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/search?q=path%3A%2Fgocd+container_cleaner.py) with [container_clenaer](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/search?q=path%3A%2Fgocd+container_cleaner) only. However, it works as expected for [announcer.py](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/search?q=path%3A%2Fgocd+announcer.py). I have decided to drop the `.py` part.

#### pkglistgen

Generates and updates OBS products for openSUSE and SLE. It generates package lists based on
`000package-groups` and puts them in `000product` (resulting kiwi files) and `000release-packages`
(release package spec files).

* Sources: [pkglistgen.py](pkglistgen.py)
* Documentation: [docs/pkglistgen.md](docs/pkglistgen.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-pkglistgen
* Usage: gocd

#### container_cleaner

Clean old containers from a given project like
[openSUSE:Containers:Tumbleweed](https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/openSUSE:Containers:Tumbleweed).
Only those containers providing binaries to the latest five versions for each architecture are kept.

* Sources: [container_cleaner.py](container_cleaner.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: gocd

Reviewer 2: Same here, ¿point to gocd/container-cleaner.gocd.yaml?

#### metrics

Generates insightful metrics from relevant OBS and annotation data, based on InfluxDB and Grafana.
See <https://metrics.opensuse.org/>.

* Sources: [metrics.py](metrics.py)
* Documentation: [docs/metrics.md](./docs/metrics.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-metrics
* Usage: ?

#### metrics-access

Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generates metrics. It is composed of a PHP
script and a set of [systemd units](systemd).

* Sources: [metrics/access/aggregate.php](metrics/access/aggregate.php)
* Documentation: [docs/metrics.md](./docs/metrics.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-metrics-access
* Usage: ?

#### totest-manager

Releases distribution snapshots to openQA and publishes if the result is positive.

* Sources: [totest-manager.py](totest-manager.py) and [ttm](ttm)
* Documentation: [ttm/README.md](ttm/README.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: gocd

Reviewer 2: Link to gocd/totestmanager.gocd.yaml.erb ?

#### unmaintained

Finds unmaintained binaries sourced from SLE.

* Sources: [unmaintained.py](unmaintained.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: ?

Reviewer 2: We should really mention here that, according to @nilxam, this seems to be obsolete. In my opinion, identifying the obsolete tools is one of the goals of this document.

#### sync-rebuild (obsolete)

Syncs openSUSE:Factory and openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild. This feature was already
merged into the [accept
command](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/commit/87c891662015f14421c2315210c248e712e697c8)
of the staging projects plug-in.

* Sources: [sync-rebuild.py](sync-rebuild.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: ?

Reviewer 2: This should not be a question mark. It's "none" or "obsolete".

* Sources: [checknewer.py](checknewer.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### deptool

Assists in debugging dependencies

* Sources: [deptool.py](deptool.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### requestfinder

Allows to retrieve requests from OBS with quite elaborated queries.

* Sources: [requestfinder.py](requestfinder.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### update_crawler (obsoleted by [origin-manager](#origin-manager))

Create SRs for Leap.

* Sources: [update_crawler.py](update_crawler.py) and [script](script).
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-leaper
* Usage: see [leaper](#leaper)

#### create_staging

Scripts and templates to create staging projects.

* Sources: [staging_templates](staging_templates)
* Documentation: --
* Package: --
* Usage: ?

### Bots

#### check_maintenance_incidents

Handles maintenance incident requests

* Sources: [check_maintenance_incidents.py](check_maintenance_incidents.py)
* Documentation: [docs/maintbot.asciidoc](docs/maintbot.asciidoc)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-maintenance

> * Usage: gocd

Reviewer 2: [This comment](https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/issues/1662#issuecomment-512953010) seems to suggest this could/should/was replaced by origin-manager. We need to investigate further. Maybe it's another case of obsolete tool we can shutdown.

Reviewer 3: seems very outdated script

> #### leaper

Reviewer 2: I have seen quite some claims about leaper not been used anymore (obsoleted by origin-manager or whatever other reasons). But I still see leaper mentioned here https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/blob/3990fecd037e4a08735b36a0d1cacf3cc5b7ac04/gocd/checkers.opensuse.gocd.yaml#L129

@nilxam, @coolo Can you please clarify the current Leaper situation? Maybe it's not longer used for development of new distros but is still used for maintenance?

Reviewer 4: It's in comment only mode since 2018 to figure out if it's useful to maintenance to have as reviewer. I assume they ignore the comments since.

@msmeissn ?

Reviewer 2: As discussed in another channel, it was deployed for the maintenance workflow in comment-only mode just as a proof of concept to see if it was useful there. See #1662.

Taking into account it's generating comments like this https://build.opensuse.org/request/show/894337#comment-1481926, which looks pretty useless, we fear it was never really useful there. Looks like Leaper was never adjusted for the maintenance workflow. So I would vote to mark it as obsolete and remove it from the maintenance workflow. Of course, we could check with maintenance folks in advance (maybe they find some of the Leaper comments useful).

Reviewer 3: i am not looking at leaper comments. with 15.3 it is totally obsolete as we no longer cross import sources there.
(arm32bit might be doing that somewhen, but we currently do not.)
also for 15.2 i used a different import mechanism of updates.

Author: Thanks for the info! I will mark it as obsolete.

Implements Leap-style services for non-Factory projects (whatever that means).

* Sources: [leaper.py](leaper.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-leaper
* Usage: gocd

#### origin-manager

Keeps track of from what project a package originates, submit updates, review requests to detect origin changes, and enforce origin specific policies like adding appropriate reviews

* Sources: [origin-manager.py](origin-manager.py) and [web](web)
* Documentation: [docs/origin-manager.md](docs/origin-manager.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-origin-manager
* Usage: gocd

#### staging-bot

Assists in management of staging projects.

* Sources: [devel-project.py][devel-project], [staging-report.py](staging-report.py), [suppkg_rebuild.py](suppkg_rebuild.py).
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-staging-bot
* Usage: gocd

#### legal-auto

Makes automatic legal reviews based on the legaldb API

* Sources: [legal-auto.py](legal-auto.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### check_tags_in_requests

> Checks that a submit request has corrrect tags specified.

Reviewer 2: typo: corrrect. Arrrr! :pirate_flag:

* Sources: [check_tags_in_requests.py](check_tags_in_requests.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### abichecker

Checks ABI compatibility in OBS requests.

* Sources: [abichecker](abichecker)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-abichecker
* Usage: gocd

#### check_source_in_factory

Checks if the sources of a submission are either in Factory or a request for Factory with the same

> sources exist.

Reviewer 2: According to this https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/issues/1192 this tool is obsolete. It was kind of decided to drop it... but apparently it never happened since it's still mentioned at https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/blob/3990fecd037e4a08735b36a0d1cacf3cc5b7ac04/gocd/checkers.opensuse.gocd.yaml

Reviewer 4: check_source_in_factory only scans Leap 15.0 - I think that's dead too :)

# Contents

This document describes in detail the contents of this repository. It is still a *work in progress*,
but do not hesitate to report if something is missing.

## Overview

The repository contains a set of tools to aid in the process of building, testing and releasing
(open)SUSE based distributions. The [Tools](#tools) section enumerates and describes all these
tools, including links to documentation, source code and some information about where they are used.

Apart from these tools, the repository includes:

> * Some documenation in the [docs](docs) directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Some documentation in the [docs](docs) directory.
```

* A Python module called [osclib](osclib) which includes code that is shared by several tools. They
  are available in the `osclib` package.
* A Docker-based [tests suite](tests). The Docker manifests and the Docker Compose files are
  located in the [dist](dist) directory.
* [GoCD](https://www.gocd.org) configuration files in [gocd](gocd). GoCD is an open source CI/CD

>   server that it is used to deploy the bots on OBS.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  server that is used to deploy the bots on OBS.
```

>   server that it is used to deploy the bots on OBS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  server that is used to deploy the bots on OBS. The bots run on <https://botmaster.suse.de/> (SUSE internal).
```

* A set of [Tampermonkey](https://www.tampermonkey.net) scripts (see [userscript](userscript)
  directory) to extend OBS features when using the web interface.

> * Several [systemd](systemd) units, as many of the tools (e.g., the `staging-bot`) make use of

Reviewer: A couple of days ago the review bot units were removed, these are the ones left

```suggestion
* Several [systemd](systemd) units: the Metrics and OBS Operator tools make use of
```

Reviewer 4: The systemd units are gone - we run the bots in gocd since 2019

  them.

## Tools

Most of these tools are available as packages for several distributions. Check the [spec file in
this repository](dist/package/openSUSE-release-tools.spec) or the [devel
project](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/openSUSE:Tools/openSUSE-release-tools) for further
information.

For the time being, we have classified them into three different groups: *command line tools*, *OBS
bots* and *osc plugins*. Bear in mind that the information in the following list might be wrong and
incomplete.

### Command Line Tools

 Usually, the executables are renamed as `osrt-NAME` (e.g., `osrt-announcer`).

#### announcer

Generates email diffs summaries to announce product releases.

* Sources: [factory-package-news/announcer.py](factory-package-news/announcer.py)
* Documentation: [factory-package-news/README.asciidoc](factory-package-news/README.asciidoc)

> * Package: openSUSE-release-tools-announcer

Reviewer 6: I would say usage is opensuse-factory mailing list?

Reviewer 6: I am not sure where and how it is deployed

Reviewer 4: gocd/announcer.gocd.yaml - the announcer package is no longer relevant

#### pkglistgen

Generates and updates OBS products for openSUSE and SLE. It generates package lists based on
`000package-groups` and puts them in `000product` (resulting kiwi files) and `000release-packages`
(release package spec files).

* Sources: [pkglistgen.py](pkglistgen.py)
* Documentation: [docs/pkglistgen.md](docs/pkglistgen.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-pkglistgen
* Usage: gocd

#### container_cleaner

> Cleans up the `maintenance_release` projects for containers

Reviewer 6: To be honest I have no clue what it means. What means that clean? Like removing unnecessary stuff from project?

Author: ```suggestion
Clean old containers from a given project like
[openSUSE:Containers:Tumbleweed](https://build.opensuse.org/project/show/openSUSE:Containers:Tumbleweed).
Only those containers providing binaries to the latest five versions for each architecture are kept.
```

* Sources: [container_cleaner.py](container_cleaner.py)

> * Documentation: --

Reviewer: When I looked at this I got scared because it deletes things and I thought it would be easy for me to mess things up spectacularly. @Vogtinator could you please say a few words about when and how container_cleaner  is (not) safe to use?

* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### metrics

> Generates insightful metrics from relevant OBS and annotation data, based on InfluxDB and Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generates insightful metrics from relevant OBS and annotation data, based on InfluxDB and Grafana.
See <https://metrics.opensuse.org/>.
```

* Sources: [metrics.py](metrics.py)
* Documentation: [docs/metrics.md](./docs/metrics.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-metrics
* Usage: ?

#### metrics-access

> Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generate metrics. It is composed of a PHP.

Reviewer 6: ```Suggestion
Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generate metrics. It is composed of a PHP,
```

> Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generate metrics. It is composed of a PHP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingests `download.opensuse.org` Apache access logs and generates metrics. It is composed of a PHP
```

> script and a set of [systemd units](systemd).

Reviewer 6: is it single script or more of them as I see more of it in given directory...and also example config file.

Author: Yes, you are right, it is not a script but two :smiley:  I will rephrase it a little bit.

* Sources: [metrics/access/aggregate.php](metrics/access/aggregate.php)
* Documentation: [docs/metrics.md](./docs/metrics.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-metrics-access
* Usage: ?

#### totest-manager

Releases distribution snapshots to openQA and publishes if the result is positive.

* Sources: [totest-manager.py](totest-manager.py) and [ttm](ttm)
* Documentation: [ttm/README.md](ttm/README.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### unmaintained

> Finds unmaintained binaries sourced from SLE.

Reviewer 6: I think this should be better specified. What exactly is condition? opensuse Leap packages that is taken from SLE and does not have maintainer in SLE? Or missing that maintainer in opensuse?

Author: According to the code: "Review each binary in target project sourced from SLE to see if utilized in kiwi files.". We might need to find more details.

Reviewer 7: I'm not really sure does anyone still using this script(maybe maintenance?), in Leap, `lookup.yml` has been obsoleted since 15.2, apart from that, the content of `lookup.yml` is updating by `leaper` bot, I doubt `leaper` is still running anywhere.

Reviewer 2: @msmeissn Since you (maintenance team) are ignoring leaper, I guess you don't use unmaintained.py either and this can be dropped. Right?

* Sources: [unmaintained.py](unmaintained.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### sync-rebuild

> Syncs openSUSE:Factory and openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild.

Reviewer 6: Maybe exaplanation of purpose of Rebuild subproject can help here to see a bit bigger picture why it is useful. ( I expect it is used when rebuild of factory is needed like with new gcc? )

Author: @coolo please, are @jreidinger assumptions right? From the code, I see that it triggers the rebuild of packages that failed to build in `openSUSE:Factory` and `openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild`. When and why is it used?

Reviewer 7: am not @coolo though :)

AFAIK `sync-rebuild` isn't running as a standalone service and hasn't be called by others. The code was merged to `accept command` long time ago https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/commit/87c891662015f14421c2315210c248e712e697c8 

* Basically `openSUSE:Factory` and `openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild` should have the same build fails, if not, re-trigger it to rebuild either in `openSUSE:Factory` or `openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild`
* The major difference between `openSUSE:Factory` and `openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild` is that `openSUSE:Factory` uses `rebuild=local` as its rebuild strategy
* The *rebuild a package* function will be triggered when a new Factory checkin runs, ie. accepting an(or multiple) staging project

Author: Thanks a lot, @nilxam! I guess I need to learn a little bit more about rebuilding strategies (local, transitive and direct) to get the whole point :smiley:. The reason is documented in the referenced commit: *Trigger rebuild of packages that failed build in either openSUSE:Factory or openSUSE:Factory:Rebuild, but not the other. Helps over the fact that openSUSE:Factory uses rebuild=local, thus sometimes 'hiding' build failures.*

So I would say this one is obsolete too, right?

Reviewer 7: yes, you can mark it as obsoleted.

* Sources: [sync-rebuild.py](sync-rebuild.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### bugowner

> Manages bugowner information

Reviewer 6: It is not clear for me what means manage here? How it differs from osc bugowner command? Also missing dot at the end is inconsistent with rest of description.

Reviewer: @lnussel you seem to be the author of bugowner.py. Can you please say a few words about the use cases, why it exists, difference from `osc bugowner`?

* Sources: [bugowner.py](bugowner.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### bs_mirrorfull

> Mirrors repositories from build service.

Reviewer 6: I am missing here info where it mirrors. So it mirrors from build service to ???

Author: To a local directory.

* Souces: [bs_mirrorfull](bs_mirrorfull)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: Used by other tools like `pkglistgen` or `repocheck`

#### biarchtool

Manages biarch packages

* Source: [biarchtool.py](biarchtool.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### build-fail-reminder

Sends e-mails about packages failing to build for a long time.

* Sources: [build-fail-reminder.py](build-fail-reminder.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: gocd

Reviewer 6: and I think transitive it is send to opensuse-factory mailing  list and maybe also to individual bug owners.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a link to gocd/build-fail-reminder.gocd.yaml ?

BTW, at this point of the review is pretty clear to me that the list of tools is pretty much unsorted. What about something like having all the tools deployed at gocd at the start and all the obsolete ones at the end?

#### checknewer

Checks if all packages in a repository are newer than all other repositories.

> * Sources: [checknewer.py](checknewer.py)

Reviewer 6: these three cli hits my eyes as each of it use different convention :worried: bs_mirrorfull, build-fail-reminder.py and checknewer.py

Author: Something to have in mind for the future.

* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### deptool

> Assists in debugging dependencies

Reviewer 6: I would write here some examples how it helps with debugging, one or two features should be enough as it is not clear what it provides what osc dependson does not provide.

Reviewer: @lnussel you seem to be the author of `deptool`. Is it still useful? Please tell us some use cases, it will help us reading the code and maintaining it. Thanks!

* Sources: [deptool.py](deptool.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### requestfinder

Allows to retrieve requests from OBS with quite elaborated queries.

* Sources: [requestfinder.py](requestfinder.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ?

#### update_crawler

> Create SRs for Leap.

Reviewer 6: Does it still makes sense after close gap?

Reviewer 4: I don't think it's been in use since origin manager was introduced. @nilxam ?

Reviewer 7: right, update_crawler should be obsoleted by origin-manager

Author: OK, I have marked it as obsolete. Thanks!

* Usage: ?

### Bots

#### check_maintenance_incidents

Handles maintenance incident requests

* Sources: [check_maintenance_incidents.py](check_maintenance_incidents.py)
* Documentation: [docs/maintbot.asciidoc](docs/maintbot.asciidoc)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-maintenance
* Usage: gocd

#### leaper

Implements Leap-style services for non-Factory projects (whatever that means).

* Sources: [leaper.py](leaper.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-leaper
* Usage: gocd

#### origin-manager

Keeps track of from what project a package originates, submit updates, review requests to detect origin changes, and enforce origin specific policies like adding appropriate reviews

* Sources: [origin-manager.py](origin-manager.py) and [web](web)
* Documentation: [docs/origin-manager.md](docs/origin-manager.md)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-origin-manager
* Usage: gocd

#### staging-bot

Assists in management of staging projects. It is composed of Python scripts and a few systemd
units.

* Sources: [devel-project.py][devel-project], [staging-report.py](staging-report.py), [suppkg_rebuild.py](suppkg_rebuild.py) and `osrt-staging-bot-*` [systemd units](systemd)

> * Documentation: --

Reviewer 4: again, the systemd units are gone for regular bots

* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-staging-bot
* Usage: gocd

#### legal-auto

Makes automatic legal reviews based on the legaldb API

* Sources: [legal-auto.py](legal-auto.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### check_tags_in_requests

Checks that a submit request has corrrect tags specified.

* Sources: [check_tags_in_requests.py](check_tags_in_requests.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd

#### abichecker

Checks ABI compatibility in OBS requests.

* Sources: [abichecker](abichecker)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-abichecker
* Usage: gocd

#### check_source_in_factory

Checks if the sources of a submission are either in Factory or a request for Factory with the same
sources exist.

* Sources: [check_source_in_factory.py](check_source_in_factory.py)
* Documentation: [docs/factory-source.asciidoc](docs/factory-source.asciidoc)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd?

#### openqa-maintenance

OpenQA stuff, not sure about the details.

> * Sources: [openqa-maintenance.py](openqa-maintenance.py) and [oqamaint](uqamaint)

Reviewer 6: `[oqamaint](uqamaint)` looks strange. is it  oq or uq?

* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd?

> #### check_tags_in_requests.py

Reviewer 6: It is here twice. See https://github.com/openSUSE/openSUSE-release-tools/pull/2604/files#diff-f8803a0cca97397c1fb1e42e1f462e81dc36b8a87efdb79cf1c116f5bc809413R244

* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: gocd?

#### repo-checker

Inspects built RPMs from staging projects.

* Sources: [project-installcheck.py](project-installcheck.py),
  [staging-installcheck.py](staging-installcheck.py),
  [maintenance-installcheck.py](maintenance-installcheck.py),
  [findfileconflicts](findfileconflicts), [write_repo_susetags_file.pl](write_repo_susetags_file.pl)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-repo-checker
* Usage: gocd?

#### manager_42.py

Maintains `00Meta/lookup.yml`.

* Sources: [manager_42.py](manager_42.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-leaper
* Usage: Obsoleted by origin-manager?

### OSC Plugins

#### osc-check_source.py

Checks for usual mistakes and problems in the source packages submitted by users. Used also as
review bot that assigns reviews (?).

* Sources: [check_source.py](check_source.py) and [check_source.pl](check_source.pl)
* Documentation: [docs/check_source.asciidoc](docs/check_source.asciidoc)
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-check-source
* Usage: gocd?

#### osc-origin.py

Tools for working with origin information.

* Sources: [osc-origin.py](osc-origin.py)

> * Documentation: [docs/origin-manager.md](docs/origin-manager.py)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Documentation: [docs/origin-manager.md](docs/origin-manager.md)
```

* Package: openSUSE-release-tools-origin-manager
* Usage: gocd?

#### osc-cycle.py

> Helps with OBS cycles visualization.

Reviewer 6: what are OBS cycles? google does not help much. Is it build dependency cycles?

Reviewer 4: https://build.opensuse.org/project/repository_state/openSUSE:Factory/stand

Reviewer 6: @coolo I am getting 404. Do I need specific permissions?

Reviewer 4: Fixed URL

Reviewer 6: thanks, so it is build dependency cycles. I  would specify it here, so it is clear which cycles are meant and adding the URL @coolo mentioned would be also helpful as usage example.

* Usage: ???

#### fcc_submitter.py

Creates SR from FactoryCandidates to openSUSE Leap project for new build succeded packages.

* Sources: [fcc_submitter.py](fcc_submitter.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ???

#### issue-diff.py

Compares packages from a project against factory for differences in referenced issues and presents
changes to allow whitelisting before creating Bugzilla entries.

* Sources: [issue-diff.py](issue-diff.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ???

#### obs-clone.py

Clones projects and dependencies between OBS instances.

* Sources: [obs_clone.py](obs_clone.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ???

#### obs-operator

Performs staging operations as a service instead of requiring the osc staging plugin to be utilized
directly.

* Sources: [obs_operator.py](obs_operator.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ???

#### scan_baselibs.py

Verifies 32bit binaries were imported properly towards a project.

* Sources: [scan_baselibs.py](scan_baselibs.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools
* Usage: ???

#### k8s-secret.py

> Applies kubernetes secrets for OSRT tool osc configuration.

Reviewer 2: @coolo I kind of remember you mentioned this was a tool to maintain certain infrastructure created by @jberry-suse that is now obsolete since the introduction of gocd. Correct? If so, we can also mark this as obsolete.

Reviewer 4: All of dist/kubernetes ran into the sysadmin wall and was never more than an experiment - and can easily be dropped IMO.

* Sources: [status.py](status.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: obsolete?

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should point here that this looks obsolete because it checks for the status of some bots that are already retired.

* Sources: [obs_clone.py](obs_clone.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: obsolete

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that was originally intended for testcases, but a different approach for testing was then introduced

* Sources: [scan_baselibs.py](scan_baselibs.py)
* Documentation: --
* Package: openSUSE-release-tools

> * Usage: obsolete

Reviewer 2: We may mention that this apparently became obsolete once this fix was introduced in OBS https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/pull/7662
